[WIP] (#6579) move observability with kiali istio.io test to docs repo (#6815)
istio/istio.io: tests/observability/scripts/perform_kiali_test.txt

# limitations under the License.

set -e
set -u
set -o pipefail

# Setup port-forwarding to Kiali pod as it is not accessible from outside
# the cluster, but commands are run from outside the cluster.
function setup_kiali_port_forwarding() {
  local local_port=$1
  local kiali_pod=$(kubectl get pod -l app=kiali -n istio-system | grep 'kiali' | head -1 | awk '{ print $1 }')
  local kiali_port=$(kubectl get service kiali -n istio-system -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http-kiali")].targetPort}')

  echo "Setting up port-forwarding for Kiali at local port $local_port"
  kubectl port-forward $kiali_pod $local_port:$kiali_port -n istio-system &
  KIALI_PORT_FORWARD_PID=$!
  KIALI_LOCAL_URL="http://localhost:$local_port/kiali/api"
}

function cleanup_kiali_port_forwarding() {
  local exit_code=$?
  echo "Exited with $exit_code"
  echo "Stopping port-forward for Kiali"
  if [ -z $KIALI_PORT_FORWARD_PID ]; then
    echo 'It seems that Kiali port-forward PID is not set up properly'
    kill $(netstat -ntpl | grep '127.0.0.1:8888' | awk '{ print $7 }' | cut -d'/' -f1)
  else
    kill $KIALI_PORT_FORWARD_PID
  fi
  exit $exit_code
}

> ## Setup port-forwarding for Kiali and register trap

Reviewer: Change "Setup" to "Set up".  (https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#setup)

## for cleaning up on exit
echo "Setting up port forwarding from 8888 to Kiali's API port"
setup_kiali_port_forwarding 8888 # TODO: Pick a random unused port

> echo "Register clean up task for Kiali port-forward on exit"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo "Register cleanup task for Kiali port-forward on exit"
```

trap cleanup_kiali_port_forwarding EXIT

> # Allow port-forwarding to be setup in the background

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Allow port-forwarding to be set up in the background
```

sleep 4

> ## Login to Kiali using demo secret and save the token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log in to Kiali using demo secret and save the token
```

echo "Obtain token for accessing Kiali API"
DEMO_SECRET='YWRtaW46YWRtaW4='
API_TOKEN=$(curl -H "Authorization: Basic $DEMO_SECRET" $KIALI_LOCAL_URL/authenticate | jq -r '.token')
if [ -z $API_TOKEN ]; then
  echo 'Failed to obtain auth token for Kiali'
  exit 1
fi

# Attaches JWT obtained from Kiali and send

> # API request to Kiali 

Reviewer: I think that "Attaches" should be "Attach". Or if not, then I think that "send" should be "sends".

function curl_with_kiali_cred() {
  local api_path=$1
  curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $API_TOKEN" $KIALI_LOCAL_URL/$api_path
}

## Determine Kiali's state

> echo "Checking Kiali state. Make sure it is running"

Reviewer: I can't tell whether this means that the code is making sure that Kiali is running, or whether it's an instruction to the human reader to make sure that Kiali is running. Can you rephrase a little bit to clarify?

KIALI_STATE=$(curl_with_kiali_cred status | jq -r '.status."Kiali state"') 
if [ $KIALI_STATE != "running" ]; then 

>   echo "kiali is not running. So no point in proceeding further"

Reviewer: Should "kiali" be capitalized here?

## Send a few requests to bookinfo application
echo "Send a few requests to bookinfo application"
for i in {1..20}; do
  STATUS_CODE=$(curl -w '%{http_code}' http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage)
  if (($STATUS_CODE != 200)); then
    echo "expected status 200, but got $STATUS_CODE"
    exit 1
  fi
done

## STEP 1:
## Obtain namespace graph for istio-io-bookinfo namespace
## It should show services and the pods that back it along
## with their version
NAMESPACE_GRAPH=$(curl_with_kiali_cred 'graph?graphType=versionedApp&namespaces=istio-io-bookinfo')

EXPECTED_WORKLOADS=('details-v1' 'istio-ingressgateway' 'productpage-v1' 'ratings-v1' 'reviews-v1' 'reviews-v2' 'reviews-v3')
WORKLOADS_PATH='.elements.nodes[].data.workload'
ACTUAL_WORKLOADS=($(echo "${NAMESPACE_GRAPH}" | jq -r $WORKLOADS_PATH))
EXPECTED_WORKLOADS_STR="${EXPECTED_WORKLOADS[@]}"
ACTUAL_WORKLOADS_STR="${ACTUAL_WORKLOADS[@]}"
if [ "$EXPECTED_WORKLOADS_STR" != "$ACTUAL_WORKLOADS_STR" ]; then
  echo "mismatch in workloads list"
  echo "expected: $EXPECTED_WORKLOADS_STR"
  echo "  actual: $ACTUAL_WORKLOADS_STR"
  exit 1
fi

## STEP 2:
## Obtain App graph which aggregates all versions of an app
## to a single node.

> 

Reviewer: Are these steps intentionally left blank?

Author: Yes, Each of them involves parsing JSON. At that that I was not even sure what steps should be there. Since much of it would be tested by Kiali team anyways we would test integration with Istio.
